README.md, before:

# HIV-Quasipore-basecallers

HIV-Quasipore is an HIV-1-specific Nanopore basecaller designed to substantially improve HIV-1 read quality and enhance viral quasispecies (vQs) detection. It comes in two version: fast and high-accuracy (HAC). The former is designed for live basecalling, and the latter deisgned for pipeline incorperation. While its primary purpose is to enhance HIV-vQs detection, it can be applied for other HIV-1-specific applications, including but not limited to:

* HIV-1 CRISPR-induced InDel detection
* Whole genome amplification
* Integration site studies
* vQs-specific *tat* and *rev* exon matching
* Coevolution studies

## Improvement metrics 
Add pretty figures later

## Use template

```bash
# Undo tarball to use basecaller
$ tar -xf HIV-Quasipore-<type>.json.tar.gz

# HIV-Quasipore-HAC example
$ guppy_basecaller -s <outdir> -i <read_dir> -r -c dna_r9.4.1_450bps_hac.cfg -x cuda:0 --qscore_offset -6.98 --qscore_scale 2.92 -m HIV-Quasipore-high-accuracy.json

# HIV-Quasipore-fast example
$ guppy_basecaller -s <outdir> -i <read_dir> -r -c dna_r9.4.1_450bps_fast.cfg -x cuda:0 --qscore_offset -18.67 --qscore_scale 4.0 -m HIV-Quasipore-fast.json
```

## Citation
TBD

Commit message:

updated to include R10.3 basecallers and updated instructions

README.md, after:

# HIV-Quasipore-basecallers

HIV-Quasipore is an HIV-1-specific Nanopore basecaller designed to substantially improve HIV-1 read quality and enhance viral quasispecies (vQs) detection. It comes in three versions: fast, high-accuracy (HAC) and super-accuracy (SUP) for R9.4.1 basecalling and HAC and SUP for R10.3 basecalling. 

The fast basecaller is designed for live basecalling, while HAC and SUP basecallers are designed for pipeline incorperation. While their primary purpose is to enhance HIV-vQs detection, it can be applied for other HIV-1-specific applications, including but not limited to:

* HIV-1 CRISPR-induced InDel detection
* Whole genome amplification
* Integration site studies
* vQs-specific *tat* and *rev* exon matching
* Coevolution studies

## Citation
TBD

## Basecallers

|Basecaller|File|
|--|--|
|R9.4.1 HIV-Quasipore (fast) | fast_r941_final.json |
|R9.4.1 HIV-Quasipore (high accuracy) | hac_r941_final.json |
|R9.4.1 HIV-Quasipore (super accuracy) | sup_r941_final.json |
|R10.3 HIV-Quasipore (high accuracy) | hac_r103_final.json |
|R10.3 HIV-Quasipore (super accuracy) | sup_r103_final.json |

## Use template

```bash
# R9.4.1 HIV-Quasipore-HAC example
$ guppy_basecaller -s <outdir> -i <read_dir> -x cuda:0 -m hac_r941_final.json
```
